1. **CIP's undermine representative democracy**
   1. Representatives normally have to go through several layers of bureaucracy and forms to initiate a proposition, while citizen initiated propositions normally go directly to state or federal governments. This makes it so propositions are passed much more efficiently and quickly. In fact, according to Ballotpedia, citizen initiated propositions take around 30 days to be fully processed and discussed, compared to those in Congress and the House of Representatives, which on average take around 50 to 70 days. Along with this, representatives normally represent the interests of about 60% of citizens within states, so the voice of the rest of the citizens is much less likely to be heard.

2. **CIP's harm minorities** (does this mean political minorities or ethnic/socioeconomic minorities?)
   1. In fact, rather than harming minorities, CIP’s can help minorities get their voices heard. Representatives from a majority are quite often unaware of the interests of minorities, and citizen initiated propositions allow their voice to be heard. In fact, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures, ballot initiatives are beneficial to minorities, with over 70% initiated by them bettering their lives and making their voice heard. Compared to this, only 32% of Federal and State initiatives are beneficial towards minorities.
3. CIP's benefit special interests and create corruption
   1. On the contrary, it is actually much harder and more complex to influence citizens than it is to influence Congress. In fact, according to Represent Us, a nonpartisan nonprofit aiming to stop corruption within the United States, many of the upper class members of Congress may vote unfairly on propositions based on themselves, not the people they are meant to represent. CIP’s can stop this very efficiently, since they come directly from the people, and not through several layers. In the end, it comes down for the citizens to vote as well. Tell me, is it easier to influence millions of people, or to influence a small group of people who may not have the best interests of the country at heart?

4. **CIP's target uninformed citizens (voters)**
   1. Yes, while citizens may not make informed decisions, it is better than no decision at all. Congress can, after all, always immediately deny an idea if enough people want to. According to Ballotpedia, of the 1269 CIP’s initiated in California since 1910, the amount of successful initiatives has exponentially increased. Utilizing statistics from Ballotpedia ranging from 1910 to 2019, it can be concluded that the amount of ballot initiatives which succeed has gone up roughly 40%. In 1970, 17 of 28 CIP’s passed, and in 2015, 28 propositions were also made, yet this time, 21 passed. CIP’s also help educate citizens on what is good for the country, and what isn’t so they can make informed decisions when they vote, and make sure politicians aren’t making empty promises.
1. **Citizens aren't qualified to make laws**
   1. The citizens who are going to be creating the new laws research and study the subject most of the time. Also, the state has to approve of the proposition before it can actually be put onto the ballot and they have to have enough signatures/supporters. Therefore, many of the less researched or studied propositions won’t make it to the ballot or have a chance at becoming a law.
   2. Judge, there is almost no difference between ballot initiatives and ballot propositions except who proposed them. So by saying that the citizens aren’t educated enough to vote on initiatives, you are saying that they aren’t educated enough to vote, which is completely false since millions of people have been voting on propositions for years.

5. **CIP's unfairly benefit the wealthy**
   1. While the rich and large companies do have an advantage on proposing in some cases, it is still up to the middle and lower classes to vote. If they dislike the idea and see it as taking advantage of them, they can outvote it. According to Ballotpedia, welfare programs and other mass petitionary programs are in place to prevent propositions only benefiting the rich, so all can both propose and sign CIP’s. 
   2. Even if the rich are more likely to propose CIP's, the people are still the ulitmate deciders. If a CIP benefits the rich, then clearly the people will not vote for it.
   3. Furthermore, according to BallotPedia, the average cost per signature in 2019 was $10.22. This is a small amount of money that anybody could easily pay, and it is necessary so that if the initiative is approved, there is funding available for it. Also, When prop says that rich people can pay more for votes, look to the US News who writes, Californians require mandatory disclosures about the funding and origins of ballot initiatives in order to curb the advantage richer people have. 
6. **Citizens do not care enough to vote**
   1. Yes, while citizens may not care enough to vote, CIP’s help boost interest in politics. If a CIP benefits a citizen or demographic of citizens, they’d be much more invested in it, and as a result, take more part within politics.
7. **The poor can’t afford to waste an hour of work**
   1. Who says they have to do it at work? It takes 15 minutes to go to your city center at most, and there you can go and sign the petition against or for the proposition.

8. **CIP's cost too much**
   1. Judge, this is actually far from the truth. Most citizen initiated propositions aren’t costly at all. Most of the citizen initiated propositions that are costly are due to ad campaigning and other variables, which are usually sponsored by certain companies. Also, signing propositions don’t require any to little money to register a vote
   2. Yes it may be costly, but the cost is worth it. Many of the ballot initiatives are to very beneficial to society, making them worth every single penny. For example, prop 14 calls for a fund of 5.5million dollars to stem cell research. This is 5.5million dollars spent on something that can potentially save thousands or even millions of lives. So sure, it may be costly, but would we really want to set back life-saving research simply because we want to save money? 
9. **CIP's are unconstitutional**

10. **CIP's are easily manipulated**
   1. CIP's are designed in order to hear the citizens input and their wants from the government. In order to even get a Proposition approved, a large percentage of the citizens have to agree first. Only then would it be considered as an actual law. The citizens may not have the best education and knowledge on laws, but they do know what is beneficial for themselves. How can the votes be manipulated and control the citizens when they have their own free right to accept or deny the proposition?
   2. Many of the states that have the initiative process require legislative approval for the initiative to go through. So how can they be written in a way that confuses people when the government itself makes sure it is actually understandable and  beneficial to the people.
   3. Citizen ballots are not complicated and easy to manipulate at all. Propositions aren't allowed to mislead or manipulate citizens on purpose. This means that citizens will still have a fair, justified and unaffected vote towards their proposition of their choice. Puroseful false advertising is illegal in many states. This means that advertisements and propositions cannot negatively affect citizens. This means that it is not the fault of the system when citizens fail to do their own jobs. They can proceed to research the topic if necessary. Also, judge, citizen ballots don’t always have to be passed. They just have to get the citizens' ideas to their own individual governments, and allow for citizens to have a place in propositions and laws of their respective states and countries. 

