# CIP's Opp Points

1. **CIP's give voters a voice in creating new laws**
   1. **Reasoning:** 
      1. They give voters power to make laws that matter to them, and will improve everyone's lives.
      2. It prevents political gridlock, which is when the government is having difficulty passing laws because of political conflicts
      3. The layers of bureaucracy that must be gone through, and the effort that a Representative must make is greatly reduced through CIP’s, which often go directly to the government. Along with this, Representatives normally propose ideas on which they were elected, meaning if someone has an idea in between that time it is much less likely to be heard. Citizens having a say in the creation of laws also makes sure that the laws being passed benefit the citizens, and do not adversely affect them. 
   2. **Evidence:**
      1. According to the Los Angeles Times in 2019, Californians have passed initiatives that ended gerrymandering by shifting redistricting to citizen commissions and busted partisan gridlock by requiring only a simple majority vote on budgets. Initiatives have also enacted far-reaching environmental laws to protect the coast and address climate change.
      2. Furthermore, many citizen initiatives that have been enacted were environmental laws that protect the coast, help prevent littering in the Pacific, and address climate change. 
      3. If approved by voters, California homeowners who are 55 or older can purchase a new home and keep their property tax payment at the same level or a reduced rate — depending on the value of the new house. This expands a long-standing program that is available only in a few counties. The impact is clear: Older Californians who might otherwise be reluctant to change homes and pay higher property taxes would receive a new break. --> proposition 19
      4. According to the Ballotpedia, California Prop. 20 is a citizen-initiated proposition that “adds crimes to the list of violent felonies for which early parole is restricted; recategorize certain types of theft and fraud crimes, and require DNA collection for certain misdemeanors.” This closes a loophole that lets convicted child moleters, sexual predators, and others convicted of “non violent” crimes be put on parole and get released early. This citizen-initiated proposition also greatly expands DNA collection that can help solve almost all crimes. The Sacramento Bee writes that in addition to reverting Prop. 57, allowing “non violent” criminals, criminals that would receive life sentences or the death penalty in other states to be released early, Prop 20 also reverts Prop. 47, which prevented thieves who stole less then 950 dollars of merchandise from being prosecuted. 
      5. European Citizens Initiative (ECI) is a European Union CIP mechanism, thats stated goal is to enable “EU citizens to participate directly in the development of EU policies.” The ECI has passed a number of beneficial initiatives, such as
         1. Right2Water, an initiative that aimed to guarantee safe drinking water for all citizens of the European Union
         2. Ban glyphosate and protect people and the environment from toxic pesticides, banned glyphosate, a pesticide that has been classified by the World Health Organization as probably causing cancer in humans.
      6. Several active ECI initiatives:
         1. Voters without Borders -- full political rights for EU citizens and aims to give universal suffrage
         2. Proposition to increase regulation of vaping.
      7. California proposition 19 on the fall ballot would close a legal loophole that lets children who inherit homes avoid reassessment even if they didn’t live in the homes. The inheritance tax break has allowed hundreds of thousands to avoid paying the higher taxes owed by newer homeowners, and has deprived school districts, cities and counties of billions of dollars in revenue. Proposition 19 would get rid of this loophole, making taxes fairer for the general population. 
         1. According to the San Diego Morning Tribute, “It would also promote fluidity in home sales and increases the availability of larger homes for families with children.” Therefore, proposition 19 is an example of a citizen initiated proposition which benefits citizens that most.
      8. Prop 14 helps fund Stem Cell research and potentially help cure hundreds of serious diseases. 
      9. Prop 25, which prevents detained suspects from getting out of jail by simply paying cash bail. Instead, they would have to go through various risk assessments to ensure they are safe enough to be let free. 
      10. Proposition 22 is a ballot for Lyft and Uber drivers to treat their workers as employees. With almost 4.5 million people in the Uber/Lyft driving industry, this proposition will help boost the economy and provide for the millions of drivers. 
      11. According to the National Conference for State Legislatures, 74% of CIP’s benefit the vast majority of citizens, while only 57% of federal initiatives do. 
   3. **Impact:** CIP’s clearly benefit our voters and our democracy, because they know what they want and CIP’s allow them to get it done. They don’t have to go through the bureaucracy of going to Congress and can make their voice heard.
2. **CIP's are relatively free of outside influence and corruption**
   1. **Reasoning:** 
      1. Throughout history, our elected representatives have been proven to be corrupt and easily bought. So far, 46 federal officials have been convicted for corruption offenses. However, CIP’s provide a way for the people to make bills that actually benefit them instead of getting laws that are influenced by money. No matter who a bill comes from or how far it gets, everything comes down to the people to vote on whether this will help them or not. 
      2. A proposition must have a required number of signatures which varies from state to state in order to get onto the ballot, there are already a number of people which support the proposition. Once the proposition makes it onto the ballot, the proposition must receive the majority of votes. If a proposition passes, it is because the majority of the state agrees with it, which leads to majority satisfaction. This also eliminates all possibilities of influence or corruption. The people themselves are voting for their laws. 
      3. It is human nature for people to make decisions benefitting on themselves, and this also applies to politicians. Sometimes, they unfortunately may not have the best interests of their citizens at heart, often prioritizing themselves. CIP’s can make sure that citizens get their voices heard, since they come directly from citizens. It is also much harder to bribe or corrupt tens of thousands of citizens than it is to influence a few politicians.
   2. **Evidence:**
      1. An example is the Massachusetts Question 1, "Right to Repair Law" Vehicle Data Access Requirement Initiative
         1. This requires all automobile manufacturers that collect data about a car’s operation to share that data with the owner, so that it will be easier to repair the car when it’s broken.
         2. Automobile companies such as General Motors, Toyota, Ford, Honda, and Nissan have spent $25 billion to oppose the initiatives, because they want to keep control over the vehicle data. This allows them to steer car owners towards more expensive dealerships in order to earn more money. 
      2. Initiative Measure 22 places greater protections for borrowers in South Dakota by putting an 18% cap on interest rates right in the constitution. 
         1. Before this initiative measure, South Dakota was the only state in America where lobbyists can give unlimited gifts to politicians. Initiative Measure 22 increases penalties for violations of campaign finance and lobbying laws, it requires more transparency, so we know who’s buying influence in politics. 
         2. Finally, Initiative 22 toughens ethics law enforcement to investigate lobbyists and state officials for violations. Initiative Measure 22 is an example of initiatives lowering corruption rates.
   3. **Impact:**
      1. This shows that CIP’s allow people to make laws that are free from the influence of the wealthy and will combat corruption. Everything comes down to the citizen to create a law and pass it, so wealthy interests cannot buy anyone out, which allows our democracy to function as intended.

3. **CIP's result in higher voter turnout and better informed citizens.**
   1. **Reasoning:** 
      1. Citizen initiated propositions are directly related to higher voter turnout in elections, and more educated decisions by citizens. This results in citizens being better informed about politics, which results in the making of better decisions in elections, ballot votes, and other political factors in which citizens have a say in. 
      2. It is simple human nature to be more interested and invested in something that benefits us, and CIP’s capitalize on this. By making citizen-friendly propositions, which many of them support, tens of thousands of people will be more likely to cast their vote, learning how much it matters. 
   2. **Evidence:**
      1. According to the effects of ballot initiatives on voter turnout in the American states, there was on average a 10% gap in voter turnout between initiative and non initiative states in midterm elections. Ballot initiatives that spark interest from a wide cross-section of the public...increase voter turnout in elections. States with frequent usage of the initiative process have higher turnout rates in presidential elections than states with low or no usage of the process.
      2. According to the Institute for Natural Resources, the voting rate increases by up to 12% in direct proportion to the amount and popularity of certain citizen-initiated propositions. 
      3. According to Pew Research Center, millions of eligible citizens don’t vote. However there are many ways to increase voter turnout, one of those ways being citizen initiated propositions.  “For voters who are disengaged and disenchanted with the political process, robust civics education programs and integrated voter engagement initiatives can drive participation by re-energizing voters and providing them with reasons and opportunities to cast ballots on the issues that matter most to them and their communities.”  
      4. Political science professors, Caroline Tolbert and Daniel Smith (who teach at Kent State and University of Florida respectively), analyzed most voter turnouts since 1980.  The analysis revealed that citizen initiated propositions increased voter turnout in both presidential elections and midterm elections. On average, presidential turnout increased by .7% for each initiative on the ballot, whereas midterm turnout increased by 1.7%. 
      5. Another study that analyzed voter turnouts from 1970-1996 found that states with an initiative process had on average, 7% to 9% higher voter turnout in midterm and 3% to 4.5% higher in presidential elections. 
      6. The New York Times states that, “Direct democracy offers another benefit: It is a powerful stimulus to political participation.”
   3. **Impact:**
      1. Judge, clearly citizen initiated propositions will increase voter turnout just like it has been for the past half a century. By increasing the amount of voters, we are increasing the amount of people involved with the government and making needed change in our country for the better. It is a duty and right of a citizen to vote, yet many do not. Citizen initiated ballots will encourage more to exercise said right and to perform their duty, which is a major positive for the country.

4. **CIP's are well evaluated.**
   1. **Reasoning:** The process citizen initiated propositions have to go through is very well managed and verifies that the propositions are very good and organized. In addition almost half of the states with an initiative process give the legislature the ability to review the initiatives, which greatly reduces the chance of initiatives being taken advantage of or used for purely personal gains.
   2. **Evidence:**
      1. In order to get an initiative ballot, there is always a verification process it has to go through. Proponents of an initiative to file their proposal with the attorney general's office, which prepares the language used on petitions for the initiative. The secretary of state also assigns the initiative with a signature filing deadline. Then the secretary of state's office will verify that the correct amount of signatures were collected. If the number of signatures isn’t completely verified, local officials will conduct a random sampling of the submitted signatures. The random sampling needs to indicate that the petition received more than 110 percent of the required number of signatures in order for the initiative to qualify for the ballot. The Legislature is also required to hold hearings on the subject of the measure no later than 131 days before the date of the coming election. The system of petitioning for signatures also has many laws and requirements to equalize the playing field and promote fairness. 
      2. In order to curb the advantage richer people have,  the US News writes that Californians require mandatory disclosures about the funding and origins of ballot initiatives.
   1. **Impact:**
      1. The thorough evaluation that initiatives go through makes sure that all initiatives are beneficial to the people and the state. By making sure each initiative is well thought out and appropriate, it makes the citizen initiated ballots just as equal to other forms of submission. Judge, this clearly does more good than harm because the initiatives are helping us instead of harming us. 
5. **Citizens know the issues better than legislators, so CIP's will address them more effectively.**
   1. **Reasoning:** Oftentimes, people know the problems in their own communities, much better than any legislators could. Legislators who are extremely rich compared to the average citizens do not understand the circumstances that other people are going through. They do not see everyone’s perspectives which is why the people need to be able to initiate propositions. 
   2. **Evidence:**
   3. **Impact:**
      1. Judge, citizens are the ones that are most affected by these laws and citizens are the ones that are affected by all these problems. Without citizen initiatives, the legislature will most likely address the problems that have been around for years.
