1. Prevention of terrorism
   1. **Reasoning:** By having troops in Afghanistan, it allows the US to monitor the country with the most terrorist groups and stop them from becoming big enough to have a threat
   2. Evidence:
      1. According to the Washington Institute, “The withdrawal of the United States from Afghanistan will ignite civil war in the country and end up with the Taliban taking over. When the situation is better, the world will deal with Taliban as a state rather than a militia and Taliban will change, as it becomes a political entity.”
      2. Furthermore, the chances of terrorism are largely increased if the US leaves because the Afghan army is extremely weak. According to the New York Times, “The Afghan Army isn’t strong enough to stand against terrorists just by themselves, and it is obvious that they need others’ support,” The Taliban “are stronger than in the past, and if the Americans leave and don’t support and assist the Afghan Army, the Taliban will take over.”
      3. According to OurWorldInData, Afghanistan has the most terrorists as of 2019.
      4. According to Statista, a whopping 8,681 deaths occured in 2019 from terrorist attacks. A year earlier, in 2018, 9,961 deaths occured, showing that terrorism in Afghanistan is high. This same chart also shows the rising amount of deaths from terrorism in Afghanistan, showing that this is becoming an increasingly larger problem and we should stop it by having troops there. This increase also started when Trump took the majority of the troops back to the United States, so clearly, it’s a very problematic situation to not have troops there.
      5. According to CNBC, former Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman and retired four-star Marine general Joseph Dunford told a virtual United States Institute of Peace audience, “‘We believe that a U.S. withdrawal will provide the terrorists an opportunity to reconstitute and our judgment is that reconstitution will take place within about 18 to 36 months.”
      6. In a new report, the Afghanistan Study Group, a bipartisan panel charged by Congress to examine the February 2020 peace agreement made under the Trump administration, found that withdrawing troops based on a strict timeline, rather than how well the Taliban adheres to the agreement to reduce violence and improve security, risked the stability of the country and a potential civil war once international forces withdraw.
      7. According to the New York Times, “The Taliban control much of the country. Afghanistan remains one of the world’s largest sources of refugees and migrants. More than 2,400 American soldiers and more than 38,000 Afghan civilians have died.” Yes, there are US soldiers that have been killed, but by taking them out of Afghanistan, their number of deaths will skyrocket and by keeping the same amount of troops or more in Afghanistan, we’re also reducing a lot of the risk on US soldiers because groups such as the Taliban will be much more hesitant to reside in Afghanistan
      8. Also according to the New York TImes, “If it were not for the air support of U.S. forces, the Taliban would be sitting inside Kandahar city now,” stated Col. Zabiullah Ghorzang, an Afghan Army regimental commander in Kandahar Province.
      9. Furthermore, according to the Washington Post, Trump promises to attack terrorists in Afghanistan if they threaten or attack Americans — even after U.S. forces leave, similar to what the US is doing in Yemen. But Afghanistan is not Yemen. U.S. forces can hit targets in Yemen, Somalia, Syria and Libya without keeping large numbers of troops on the ground because those countries all have long coastlines. Afghanistan is landlocked. The most dangerous areas are more than 700 miles from the ocean, deep in valleys sheltered by mountains thousands of feet high. U.S. forces can hit terrorist groups in Afghanistan only from bases inside Afghanistan. 
  1. **Impact:** By preventing terrorist groups from forming, it allows not only Afghanistan, but other countries such as the United States, to be safer from terrorist attacks. The numbers of terrorist are increasing and we could solve this by keeping these troops in Afghanistan
2. Training the Afghan military and local police force
   1. **Reasoning:** If there are troops in Afghanistan, it allows for the local police forces of Afghanistan to be trained directly by American troops with experience and background.
   2. **Evidence:** 
      1. The New York Times states that, “The Afghan Army isn’t strong enough to stand against terrorists just by themselves, and it is obvious that they need others’ support,” said Atiqullah Amarkhel, a retired Afghan Army general and military analyst. The Taliban “are stronger than in the past, and if the Americans leave and don’t support and assist the Afghan Army they won’t resist long, and the Taliban will take over. This is what scares me the most.” 
      2. The official army site states that In 2010, they grew and trained the Afghan Army to 134,000 while reforming and training the police as they grew to 109,000 and partnering with the Afghan National Army Air Corps to grow and expand capacity to include 72 aircraft and 4,400 airmen.
      3. Also essential to the training mission are the trainers for the Afghan forces. The Soldiers of the first U.S. Army infantry battalion of the troop uplift were designated as trainers. More than 800 Soldiers began to arrive in Afghanistan on Jan. 10 and will have a significant impact on the trainer to trainee ratio; subsequently improving the quality of the new Afghan forces.
      4. According to the Washington Post, “For almost two decades, U.S. military commanders have assured the public they are making progress on the cornerstone of their war strategy: to build a strong Afghan army and police force that can defend the country on their own.” They also stated that, “The army and police have suffered so many casualties that the Afghan government keeps the exact numbers a secret to avoid destroying morale. Estimates are that more than 60,000 members of Afghan security forces have been killed.” Clearly, these troops need more training and by having the US army in Afghanistan, they are getting trained by professionals.
      5. According to the U.S. Department of State, “Casualties in Afghanistan peaked at 499 in 2010 and dropped sharply to an average of about 17 per year after January 2015, when Afghan forces assumed full responsibility for combat operations against the Taliban.” 
   3. **Impact:**
      1. By training the military force in Afghanistan even more, we can ensure that they will be more prepared if the US can’t back them up. They could be saving many lives, Afghans and Americans alike
3. Humanitarian Aid
   1. **Reasoning:** Innumerable women in afghanistan are facing violence from the Taliban, which can only be halted by America’s military operations in Afghanistan.
   2. **Evidence:**
      1. According to CFR “The biggest risk from the agreement is not to U.S. security—Afghanistan is but one of many countries where terrorists can operate—but, rather, to American honor, if such a quaint concept has any salience in modern America. The United States toppled the Taliban after the 9/11 attacks and took the lead on installing a new democratic government aligned with the West. Now it is abandoning that government, just as it abandoned South Vietnam following the signing of the Paris Peace Accords with Hanoi in 1973. The United States promised to aid South Vietnam if North Vietnam violated the agreement but failed to do so; Saigon fell two years later.”
      2. Washington is once again running the risk that its allies could be routed and slaughtered. This reinforces the message of American retreat being sounded by a neo-isolationist president who recently abandoned the Syrian Kurds after they suffered heavy casualties to defeat the Islamic State. One of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s central messages to other countries is that Moscow is a far more dependable ally than Washington, and a precipitous scuttle out of Afghanistan will only heighten that perception.
      3. According to CNN, Taliban talks in Afganistan (which the US initiated) hang in the balance, and Afghans see their lives become the fodder for a negotiated peace. That is especially true for women, who were shuttered indoors by the Taliban in 1994 and who continue to face violence from the Taliban today. As America looks to leave, the situation is fragile. "The question is whether the people of America are ready to support surrendering the fate of 15 million Afghan women and girls to a violent extremist group that facilitated the 9/11 [attacks] in the US," says Afghan activist Wazhma Frogh. "This is a question Afghan girls are asking today from the people of America."
      4. Judge, that is 15 million people who are going to become the victims of terrorist attacks if we were to fully withdraw. Judge, are you willing to sacrifice 15 million innocent human lives? Judge, withdrawing from Afghanistan is only going to cause millions to suffer, which goes against our weighing mechanism, what’s best for American and Afghanistan people.
      5. According to the official government site, state.gov, “The United States established diplomatic ties with Afghanistan in 1935. Afghanistan remains an important partner of the United States in the fight against terrorism, working with us to eliminate al-Qa’ida, ISIS-Khorasan (ISIS-K), and their affiliates in Afghanistan. In order to strengthen Afghanistan’s capabilities as a partner, and to improve the lives of the Afghan people, we continue to invest U.S. resources to help Afghanistan improve its security, governance, institutions, and economy. Our strong bilateral partnership is guided by the Strategic Partnership Agreement (SPA) between the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the United States signed in May 2012, which outlines respective economic and political commitments, as well as by the Bilateral Security Agreement (BSA) signed in September 2014, which outlines mutual security understandings.”
      6. In 2005, according to the Council of Foreign Relations, President Bush sent even more troops to Afghanistan and issued a joint declaration that pronounced their respective countries strategic partners. The alliance’s goal is to “strengthen U.S.-Afghan ties and help ensure Afghanistan’s long-term security, democracy, and prosperity.” 
   3. **Impact:** 
      1. Judge, what would happen if these foreign relations were gone? Afghanistan wouldn’t be there to help fight terrorist groups, ultimately putting both Americans and Afghans in danger. Their lives are at stake. And judge, we are weighing this debate on protecting the lives of both Americans and Afghans. In order to protect us and Afghans, the U.S. military should not withdraw from Afghanistan and continue to fight deadly enemies who continue to plan and prepare to kill Afghans and us Americans at home.
      2. Afghanistan is on the brink of a major humanitarian crisis that could endanger the livelihoods of 15 million afghan women and girls. America’s existence and interference in the Taliban’s activity is the only thing stopping this from happening, making it clear that we cannot cease military operations in Afghanistan in order to protect the safety of 15 million afghans.
